Michigan Bodybuilding Club: Fitness Access & Empowerment Initiative Introduction 
The Michigan Bodybuilding Club (MBBC) proposes a semester-long Fitness Access & Empowerment Initiative to help underrepresented student populations – particularly individuals who are overweight/obese, gym avoidant, part of a minority group, or have otherwise had poor experiences with exercise and nutrition – begin sustainable, confident, and evidence-based fitness journeys. 
Statement of Need 
Many students struggle to engage with fitness effectively or consistently due to: ● Misinformation about effective training and nutrition. 
● Low adherence and difficulty establishing long-term habits. 
● Intimidation and self-consciousness in gym environments. 
● Demographic disparities, as women, POC, and students who are overweight/obese remain underrepresented. 
● Body-image and confidence gaps tied to social stigma. 
These barriers lead to discouragement and inactivity. The initiative aims to address these issues by using structured education, mentorship, and destigmatization to empower students to take control of their health. 
Vision 
MBBC envisions a University of Michigan where fitness and academics do not need to be mutually exclusive, and every student – regardless of background – feels capable of engaging in structured, healthy exercise, and feels psychologically safe in gyms. By creating a supportive community grounded in kinesiology principles, we hope to make the gym a space of belonging – where all students can “work hard, play hard, and train hard.” 
The Initiative 
MBBC requests $5,000 in this grant proposal to support the Fitness Access & Empowerment Initiative. While details of budget spending and actions are subject to change, all funding will be ultimately dedicated to supporting our vision. 
For the coming Winter Semester, we aim to recruit a cohort of 10-25 students to join a guided, educational fitness program aiming to equip underrepresented students with the skills, confidence, and mindset necessary for overcoming traditional barriers, such as the belief that academics and fitness/health is mutually exclusive and that strength-training is not for them.
We aim to leverage the grant to support our vision through the following: ● Marketing, Outreach, and Recruitment ($500): Find talent (student team members) to support this initiative and recruit participants through incentives. ● WHOOP Wearables ($2,500): Wearables will monitor sleep, recovery, stress, and activity and provide objective data on participants for intervention use and explicit outcome data that may indicate the success of this initiative. ● Mentorship & Community ($750): MBBC Certified Personal Trainers and other collaborations will host sessions on training fundamentals, nutrition, recovery, and motivation to provide accountability and guidance throughout the semester. These additional funds to ensure these sessions can be sanctioned are requested. 
● Video/resource creation ($750): Design and creation of instructional videos, infographics, and a website/app will further bridge the gap for needed resources. Such a project would require funding to leverage expert resources and allow for the eventual scaling of these products. 
● Additional costs ($500): To cover unforeseen costs that may arise. 
All budget expenses are subject to change based on stakeholder and oversight involvement and will be explicitly documented. 
Expected Impacts 
1. Individual: Participants are expected to gain life-long exercise and nutrition habits to increase their quality of life and life satisfaction. 
2. Institutional: We expand the School of Kinesiology’s applied-science mission: transforming scientific knowledge into accessible, equitable, and meaningful health practice for all Wolverines. 
3. Community: We expect to learn what needs to be modified to scale and implement our vision at scale (to hundreds to thousands of students), decreasing barriers to healthy training and nutrition at a campus level. 
Action Plan 
Phase 0: Team Development & Connection (11/03-01/07) 
● Connect with at least two professionals within and outside of the School of Kinesiology for support and oversight. 
● Build and finalize a team that will support the initiative’s goals. 
Phase 1: Recruitment & Baseline (01/07 - 01/21) 
● Recruit 10-25 participants through targeted outreach and referrals. ● Conduct baseline surveys; set personal goals. 
Phase 2: Education & Setup (01/22 - 02/04) 
● Workshops on technology usage, training basics, and habit formation. ● Pair each participant with an MBBC mentor. 
Phase 3: Active Program (02/05 - 04/07) 
● 2-4 weekly training sessions with weekly mentor check-ins. 
● Mid-semester reflection on progress, barriers, and adherence. 
Phase 4: Reflection & Evaluation (04/08 - 04/25) 
● Post-program surveys on confidence and body image. 
● End-of-semester group reflection and impact summary.
